{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 ComicSansMS;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red32\green32\blue32;\red32\green121\blue13;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Planets data\
\
about / trivia\
\
size\
distance from sun\
at NYC scale\
\
time for light to reach it\
\
time for voyager to reach it\
\
gravity vs earth\
\
size vs earth\
\
length of day\
length of year\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://image.gsfc.nasa.gov/poetry/venus/q89.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://image.gsfc.nasa.gov/poetry/venus/q89.html}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How fast does light travel from the Sun to each of the planets?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 Light travels at a speed of 299,792 kilometers per second; 186,287 miles per second. It takes 499.0 seconds for light to travel from the Sun to the Earth, a distance called 1 Astronomical Unit. below I list the light travel times from the Sun to each planet:
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf0 Planet           Distance in AU            Travel time\
....................................................................\
Mercury              0.387        193.0 seconds   or    3.2 minutes\
Venus                0.723        360.0 seconds   or    6.0 minutes\
Earth                1.000        499.0 seconds   or    8.3 minutes\
Mars                 1.523        759.9 seconds   or   12.6 minutes\
Jupiter              5.203       2595.0 seconds   or   43.2 minutes\
Saturn               9.538       4759.0 seconds   or   79.3 minutes\
Uranus              19.819       9575.0 seconds   or  159.6 minutes\
Neptune             30.058      14998.0 seconds   or    4.1 hours\
Pluto               39.44       19680.0 seconds   or    5.5 hours\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.astronomycafe.net/qadir/q360.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.astronomycafe.net/qadir/q360.html}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 If the Sun were one meter across, what would be the relative sizes of the planets and their orbits?
\f4\b0\fs24                \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Body.............Diameter.......Orbit.........Diameter........Orbit\
                   (km)          (km)           (meters)      (meters)\
Sun              1392000                          1.0\
Mercury             4800        58 million        0.003         41.7\
Venus              12000       108 million        0.008         77.6\
Earth              12700       150 million        0.009        107.8\
Mars                6700       228 million        0.005        163.8\
Jupiter           140000       778 million        0.100        558.9\
Saturn            120000      1427 million        0.086       1025\
Uranus             52000      2871 million        0.037       2062\
Neptune            50000      4497 million        0.036       3231\
Pluto               2300      5913 million        0.002       4248\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 The scale is 1 millimeter = 1392 kilometers for the above solar system model. Neptune would be 3.6 centimeters across at a distance of 3.2 kilometers from the 1 meter ball representing the Sun. Note the orbit of Pluto is closer to the Sun than Neptune for a portion of the time, but the above orbit distance is a mean distance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Copyright 1997 Dr. Sten Odenwald\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sten.astronomycafe.net/space-travel-pluto/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://sten.astronomycafe.net/space-travel-pluto/}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Historically, NASA spacecraft such as the Pioneer, Voyager and New Horizons missions have taken many years to get as far away from Earth as Pluto. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.armaghplanet.com/blog/how-did-new-horizons-get-to-pluto-so-quickly.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 New Horizons mission }}was the fastest and most direct of these. Its Atlas V launch vehicle gave it an initial speed of 58,000 km/hr. With a brief gravity assist by Jupiter, its speed was boosted to 72,000 km/hour, and the 1000-pound spacecraft made it to Pluto in 9.5 years.
\f4\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 more: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.armaghplanet.com/blog/how-did-new-horizons-get-to-pluto-so-quickly.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.armaghplanet.com/blog/how-did-new-horizons-get-to-pluto-so-quickly.html}}\
\
SUN\
MERCURY\
VENUS\
EARTH\
MARS\
JUPITER \
SATURN\
URANUS\
NEPTUNE \
PLUTO\
PROXIMA\
\
\
How much would you weigh? hi/lo GRAVITY JUPITER / MARS\
How long until lunch? hi/lo LENGTH OF DAY MERCURY 4424/ JUPITER 9.9\
How old would you be? hi/lo LENGTH OF YEAR MERCURY/ SATURN\
temperature VENUS 464 / URANUS -224 \
distance JUPITER MERCURY\
time for mobile phone call response AU PLUTO \
MOONS PLUTO 5 / \
NO MAGNETIC FIELD = VENUS / MARS\
LEAST DENSE = SATURN\
\
MERCURY: AGE \
VENUS: TEMPERATURE\
EARTH: DESSERT ON MERCURY \
MARS: WEIGHT \
JUPITER: WEIGHT \
SATURN: DENSITY\
URANUS: TEMPERATURE\
NEPTUNE: AGE \
PLUTO: PHONE CALL \
PROXIMA: DISTANCE AROUND THE EARTH?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}